---
title: 'Angular: Still Winning'
layout: post
---

I've just pushed up a fully NodeJS and AngularJS [Tic-Tac-Toe game] (http://github.com/thomaskeschl/t4) and I figured I'd use this opportunity to reflect on things I've learned since I last talked about it. But before I move on to Angular, I want to make a quick comment about Node and npm: though I'm not doing too much with the server side component, aside from serving static files, I must say, the tooling for these products is pretty awesome. Using both the Angular tutorial app and some seed projects as guides, I was able to put together a no fuss, simple application structure with almost push button setup. I'm impressed by how simple this was, and I'd recommend going over my `package.json` file.

As far as tools go, I've spent the last weekend going over GulpJS and trying to figure out how to make it work for my purposes. All the tutorials I found that try to describe how to incorporate Angular and Gulp end up being (in my opinion) way too complicated. Luckily, the team in charge of Angular2.0 have put a few demo projects on GitHub under the Angular umbrella that use Gulp exclusively. And by borrowing one and tweaking it, I was able to get a set of tasks put together that do exactly what I want: move the files for both the server and app into a dist folder, and move 3rd party components (like Angular itself) into a sub folder of the dist directory. This lets me have a well organized source, and a much differently organized dist folder. Later, I'll be able to minify the Angular code, use ES6's `require` and `export` mechanisms and do other client side things, while leaving the server code unmolested. This is by far the best solution I've found for JS application organization, so I recommend diving into the code and really looking at what's happening there.

Finally, the main course: Angular itself. My initial impressions have proven to be more than just impressions. Angular really is this good. Between the Angular version and the pure JS version of Tic-Tac-Toe that I've been experimenting with, the Angular version does more with less code, more readable code and more testable code. Relying on the two-way binding mechanism to update the view is a heaven send over doing something akin to the ReactJS flow, at least for very simple use cases that this particular game represents. It's easy to build, reason about and extend, and it really has been a treat to work with. In fact, most of the time I spent was in trying to bring over the JS version into a more Angular pattern. This was a mistake to do for someone trying to learn a new framework: I was tying myself to old conceptions, patterns that didn't make sense in the context of the framework and a completely different way of thinking. It wasn't until I saw the [style guide by John Papa] (https://github.com/johnpapa/angularjs-styleguide) as well as some of the Angular2.0 material that the whole point really sunk in and I decided to start from scratch.

Decision made, it took me slightly longer to get the logic for the Angular version in place than it did for the bar JS version, and I also switched from using Canvas to using a basic grid of `<divs>`. But that time was mostly spent looking up best ways of doing things in an Angular style and was time well spent. I imagine that further work to the client facing code will be much speedier than it would otherwise have been. Again, check out the code and look at the differences. I think you'll find you agree with me.

I am still learning the framework, but I must say that I heartily recommend it for your next client side code spree.